Day04 Summary


Lab - Connection between EC2 Server public subnet and RDS private subnet

Requirements:
    - Create a Custom VPC
    - Create one public and one private subnet
    - Connect public subnet to internet Gateway using route table
    - Create an ec2 instance using the public subnet
    - Create an RDS database using the private subnet
    - Establish a connection between ec2 instance and db instance
    - Run a Web server on ec2 instance that connects to the db instance


The steps I took to complete the Lab

I created a custom VPC with the IP range 10.0.0.0/16. I didn't change any other configuration.

I then create two new subnets from subnets tab. I selected the custom VPC I created for VPC inside
For first subnet I gave "publicsubnet" name, IP range of 10.0.1.0/28 and selected one random AZ.
For second subnet I gave "privatesubnet" name, IP range of 10.0.2.0/28 and selected different AZ.

I then created two Route tables with custom VPC, one for public subnet and another for private subnet.

I created a internet gateway and attached it to the custom VPC by selecting the gateway I created and Action -> Attach to VPC

Attaching Subnets and internet gateway to route table.

Opened public route table and under Routes: Edit routes -> Add roues -> Destination: 0.0.0.0/0, Target: Internet gateway

Assigned public subnet to public route table and private subnet to private route table.
Subnet associations -> Edit subnet associations -> select correct subnet -> save

Set public route table as Main route table. Select public route table -> Action -> Set main route table


Launch ec2 instance. Gave it a nameand selected new key pair saved in aws.
Edited the network setting and selected the custom VPC and public subnet created earlier.
Created a new security group and allowed SSH, HTTPS, and HTTP traffic; and launched instance.

Creating the databse in RDS.
Selected standard create and choose MYSQL as engine option and free tier template.
In the setting changed the name and created a password for the database.
In connectivity section choose the custom VPC, and selct no to public access, Everything else remain the same.

Connecting EC2 instance to RDS:
After the database is done creating, go to security group page.
Select the security id that is associated with the database and edit inbound rules
Select Add rule and select all traffic for Type. For the Source select the source id associated with ec2 instance
Did the same thing to EC2 security group to add security id from database.

Connecting the ec2 server to the database.

Connecting a database to the web application is a challenged for me since I don't have experience in it. 
I found a tutorial page in aws userguide that should how to create and connect a web server.
I followed their instructions and created a php file in apache server and saved database information for the server to connect.
Then created a simple html file to check if it is working.


